Indiana Academic Super Bowl
A Program of the Indiana Association of School Principals
Social Studies Round
 2021 – Senior Division Coaches Practice

Students:Throughout this competition, foreign names and words may be used. If there are any discrepancies between how a word/phrase should be pronounced and what you see on the screen, the screen supersedes what is spoken.

SD-CP-SS-1
How much time passed from the month that Congress approved the 19th Amendment until Secretary of State Bainbridge signed the proclamation acknowledging its ratification by Tennessee and inclusion in the United States Constitution?

A.	from April 1913 to August 1920
B.	from April 1916 to November 1918
C.	from June 1919 to August 1920
D.	from June 1919 to November 1921

SD-CP-SS-2
Which of the following statements accurately describe suffrage militant Sue Shelton White’s activities in the months prior to July 1920 when she arrived in Nashville, Tennessee?

A.	Burned President Wilson in effigy at the gates 	of the White House
B.	Picketed the Republican Party’s national 	convention in Chicago
C.	Traveled to Ohio to confront the Republican 	and Democrat candidates for president
D.	All of the above


SD-CP-SS-3
The Women’s Hour features a picture of the large “Suffrage Map” of the United States that hung at both the NAWSA and the Women’s Party headquarters.  According to that map, by 1920 and before the ratification of the 19th Amendment, the State of Indiana had granted women the right to vote in which elections?

A.	all general and primary elections
B.	Presidential elections
C.	Presidential and municipal elections
D.	no elections

SD-CP-SS-4
How did the controversy over the 19th Amendment impact Tennessee Governor Albert Roberts’s 1920 campaign for re-election?

A.	He assumed that an early endorsement of the 	amendment would guarantee his re-election.
B.	He had demanded large campaign contributions in 	exchange for supporting the amendment.
C.	He refused to call a special legislative session to 	ratify the amendment until after the gubernatorial 	primary election.
D.	He was pressured by National Republican Party 	leaders to call a special legislative session to ratify 	the amendment. 

SD-CP-SS-5
As she prepared to battle for the ratification of the 19th Amendment in Tennessee, Carrie Catt sent a letter to Anne Dudley, the Nashville suffrage leader, in which she expressed which of the following opinions?

A.	Suffragists were defending American civilization.
B.	Tennessee would most likely complete the 	ratification of the amendment, 
C.	There was no chance that Tennessee would 	ratify the amendment.
D.	Unity of purpose was the suffragists’ greatest 	advantage.

SD-CP-SS-6
Carrie Catt found petty bickering and serious rivalries dividing the women of Tennessee who supported ratification of the 19th Amendment.   Which did she regard as the least serious problem because there were so few of them? 

A.	Memphis ladies who did not like the Nashville 	and Chattanooga ladies
B.	Republicans who didn’t trust Democrat suffragists
C.	Opponents of Governor Albert Roberts who 	wouldn’t work with his supporters
D.	Women’s Party members going their own way

SD-CP-SS-7
Following the deaths of her second husband, mother, and brother, Carrie Catt submerged her grief in working with Millicent Fawcett to cofound which of the following groups?

A.	The International Woman Suffrage Alliance
B.	The League of Women Voters
C.	The National American Woman Suffrage 	Association
D.	The Woman’s Party

SD-CP-SS-8
Three of the following statements accurately describe Carrie Catt’s friend and companion Mollie Hay.  Which statement is false?

A.	Blunt, even abrasive, and disliked by many 	suffragists
B.	Encouraged Catt to accept the presidency of 	NAWSA again
C.	A midwesterner from Indiana
D.	Uncomfortable with politics and avoided 	politicians 

SD-CP-SS-9
Catherine Kenny grew up in a very large, poor Irish family in Chattanooga.  In Nashville, her husband’s Coca-Cola bottling plant prospered and they became wealthy.  What motivated her to become a woman’s suffrage activist?

A.	Affiliation with progressive Democrats
B.	Concern for the future of her children
C.	Desire to be accepted in Nashville’s highest 	social circles 
D.	Encouragement from her Roman Catholic 	priest and bishop

SD-CP-SS-10
Which of the following events followed John Vertree’s effort to stop the state legislature’s attempts to enact a law allowing Tennessee women to vote in municipal and presidential elections?

A.	Both the lower state courts and the state Supreme 	Court declared the law unconstitutional because it did 	not require women to pay a poll tax.
B.	In two separate legislative sessions, the state Senate 	passed the bill but it never received the House’s 	approval.
C.	The state Supreme Court declared that the legislature 	did have the authority to enact women’s suffrage.
D.	William Jennings Bryan’s stirring endorsement of the 	law assured its passage.

SD-CP-SS-11
Each of the following Midwestern colleges were among the first in the United States to admit women.  Which one was the very first college to admit women, as well as African-American students, and from which Lucy Stone graduated in 1847?

A.	Franklin College in Franklin, Indiana
B.	Hillsdale College in Hillsdale, Michigan
C.	Oberlin College in Oberlin, Ohio
D.	Otterbein University in Westerville, Ohio

SD-CP-SS-12
According to Elaine Weiss, Tennessee Governor Albert Roberts regarded women’s suffrage as a distraction as he faced which of the following more serious problems in Memphis?

A.	Chaos and massacres associated with race 	riots
B.	Murder and other crimes associated with 	organized crime
C.	Public panics associated with outbreaks of 	cholera
D.	Unrest associated with firemen’s strike

SD-CP-SS-13
Which of the following invalidated Tennessee’s constitutional provision that prohibited the consideration of a federal constitution amendment by a sitting legislature?

A.	the Tennessee General Assembly
B.	the Tennessee Supreme Court
C.	the United States Congress
D.	the United States Supreme Court

SD-CP-SS-14
According to the political deal agreed upon by Tennessee Governor Albert Roberts and NAWSA President Carrie Catt, the campaign to ratify the 19th amendment would be led by which of the following?
A.	The Governor’s Ratification Committee chaired 	by Kate Warner
B.	The League of Women Voters Ratification 	Committee led by Catherine Kenny and 
	Abby	Milton
C.	Several different ratification committees reflecting 	various political interests
D.	The Tennessee Ratification Committee chaired 	by Charl Williams
16

SD-CP-SS-15
Several factors caused many suffragists to doubt Democrat presidential candidate James Cox’s commitment to women’s suffrage.  Which one worried them the most?

A.	His record on women’s suffrage in Ohio
B.	His conservative religious affiliation
C.	His reluctance to take a position on the 	19th Amendment
D.	His opposition to Prohibition and ties to 	the liquor interests

SD-CP-SS-16
Women, accompanied by bands and elaborate floats in a huge suffrage parade on Washington’s Pennsylvania Avenue, were attacked by mobs of angry men and boys.  Federal troops had to be called in to restore order as the police stood by and didn’t intervene.  When did the suffragists stage this parade organized by Alice Paul?

A.	After the first women’s suffrage amendment was 	introduced in Congress in 1878
B.	As the Treaty of Versailles was being negotiated in 	the spring of 1919
C.	The day before Woodrow Wilson’s presidential 	inauguration in March, 1913
D.	The day the 19th Amendment was submitted to the 	states in August, 1920 

SD-CP-SS-17
Three of the following statements accurately describe Woodrow Wilson’s announcement that he would vote in favor of women’s suffrage in a 1915 New Jersey referendum.  Which statement is false?

A.	It convinced the press that the soon-to-be new 	
	Mrs. Wilson was a supporter of women’s suffrage.
B.	It repudiated a federal amendment in favor of a 	state-by-state approach.
C.	It was meant to mollify concerns about his 	recent marriage among women voters in the west.
D.	It would earn him the support of both Carrie Catt of 	the NAWSA and Alice Paul of the National 	Woman’s Party.

SD-CP-SS-18
Carrie Catt was accused of betraying her personal principles and making a Faustian bargain when she agreed to do which of the following for President Woodrow Wilson?
A.	Accept his administration’s segregation of 	African-American federal workers
B.	Advocate for women’s suffrage while 	simultaneously supporting U. S. involvement 	in World War I
C.	Attend White House social events hosted by 	his second wife, Edith
D.	Endorse the Versailles Treaty and U. S. 	membership in the League of Nations

SD-CP-SS-19
Which of the following statements accurately describe the announcements made to the press after Woodrow Wilson’s White House meeting with presidential candidate James Cox and vice-presidential candidate Franklin Roosevelt?

A.	All three men endorsed the 19th Amendment 	and urged Tennessee to ratify it.
B.	Cox expressed concern for the Presidents 	health.
C.	Wilson declared that he and Cox both 	supported the League of Nations.
D.	All of the above

SD-CP-SS-20
Which one of the following American suffragists earned a PhD from the University of Pennsylvania, worked with Emmeline Pankhurst’s organization in England for several years, and eventually led a militant faction that broke with Carrie Catt and the NAWSA?
A.	Millicent Fawcett
B.	Alice Paul
C.	Anna Shaw
D.	Sue White

SD-CP-SS-21
In what year, after several proposals had been stuck in Congress for a dozen years, did the U. S. Senate first vote on a women’s suffrage constitutional amendment, voting it down by a two-to-one margin?
A.	1869
B.	1876
C.	1887
D.	1893

SD-CP-SS-22
In 1869, Wyoming granted full suffrage to women.  Which were the only other three states to do so in the 19th Century?

A.	Colorado, Utah, and Idaho
B.	Ohio, Illinois, and Indiana
C.	Oregon, Washington, and California
D.	Texas, New Mexico, and Louisiana

SD-CP-SS-23
After Congress submitted the 19th Amendment to the states for ratification, the following states all rushed to approve it.  In which state, where women already had full suffrage rights, did the legislature approve the amendment unanimously while an assemblywoman presided?	

A.	Michigan
B.	New York
C.	Utah
D.	Wyoming

SD-CP-SS-24
In May of 1920, trying to protect himself and an equally anti-suffrage U. S. Senator, Republican Governor Marcus Holcomb of which state stubbornly refused to call a special session of the pro-suffrage legislature to ratify the 19th Amendment?

A.	Connecticut
B.	Delaware
C.	New Jersey
D.	Virginia

SD-CP-SS-25
In the summer of 1920, Carrie Catt was hearing from political informants that leaders of which political party were conspiring to stop the ratification count at 35 states in order to quietly block the 19th Amendment from going into force before Election Day?

A.	The Democratic Party
B.	the Republican Party
C.	both the Democratic and Republican parties
D.	neither the Democratic or Republican parties

SD-CP-SS-26
From his front porch in Marion, Ohio, Republican presidential candidate Warren Harding responded to requests by Louisine Havemeyer and Sue White to support ratification of the 19th Amendment with three of the following sentiments.  What did he not say?

A.	That, by both personal conviction and party loyalty, he 	was committed to women’s suffrage
B.	That he hoped for the quick ratification of the 	amendment by the one more needed state 
C.	That he was firmly committed to securing the 36th and 	final state to ratify the amendment
D.	That women, an uplifting force in America’s social and 	spiritual development, were about to be enfranchised

SD-CP-SS-27
Louisine Havemeyer, one of the two suffragists who confronted Warren Harding on his front porch as he prepared to accept the Republican nomination for president, was the very wealthy widow of Henry Havemeyer whose family controlled which of the following?
A.	All of the pork production in Chicago 
B.	Almost all of the sugar supplies in the 	United States
C.	Major steel mills and banks in Pennsylvania
D.	Most of the gold and silver mines in 	Montana

SD-CP-SS-28
U. S. Senator Henry Cabot Lodge of Massachusetts, the Republican majority leader and bitter foe of President Woodrow Wilson, officiated at Warren Harding’s acceptance of the party’s nomination for president.  What was his position on the 19th Amendment?

A.	He earnestly believed in women’s suffrage, both in 	Washington and in Massachusetts.
B.	He had arranged a meeting between Harding and 	leading suffragists just before the 1920 Republican 
	national convention
C.	He had done everything he could to block Senate 	approval of the amendment
D.	He supported the amendment but only to embarrass 	Wilson and to help Republicans.



SD-CP-SS-29
According to Elaine Weiss, Annie Meyer possessed “an analytic and unsparing eye” that could spot hypocrisy and opportunistic inconsistencies.  Which of the following phrases most accurately describes her beliefs about women’s rights? 

A.	College curriculums should prepare women for their 	proper roles in the “women’s sphere.”
B.	Giving women voting rights would compromise their 	ability to influence male decision-makers.
C.	State and federal governments should not promote 	political equality of either African-Americans or 	women.
D.	Women’s natural moral purity would be defiled or 	corrupted by political activity.

SD-CP-SS-30
Nina Pinckard, president general of the Southern League for the Rejection of the Susan B. Anthony Amendment, wrote to which of the following men declaring that the 19th Amendment threatened the very safety of Southern civilization and the purity of Anglo-Saxon blood and asking why Democrats in the South should continue to support candidates who intend to crucify Southerners on a Federal cross?
A.	James Cox, candidate for president
B.	Luke Lea, former U. S. senator and publisher of the 	Nashville Tennessean
C.	Albert Roberts, governor of Tennessee and candidate 	for re-election
D.	Seth Walker, the speaker of the Tennessee House of 	Representatives

SD-CP-SS-31
Nina Pinckard, president general of the Southern League for the Rejection of the Susan B. Anthony Amendment, was the grandniece of which Southern aristocrat who promoted slavery as a positive good rather than just a necessary evil and developed the ideological foundation for states’ rights and nullification?

A.	John C. Calhoun, vice-president of the 
	United States and U. S. senator
B.	Jefferson Davis, president of the Confederacy
C.	Robert Hayne, U. S. Senator 
D.	Alexander Stephens, vice-president of the 	Confederacy

SD-CP-SS-32
Which of the following women was horrified by the racism of many white suffragists after the Civil War and joined with other moderate feminists to form the American Woman Suffrage Association which focused on getting individual states to grant the vote to women but steered clear of more radical social reforms?

A.	Susan B. Anthony
B.	Lucretia Mott
C.	Emmeline Pankhurst
D.	Lucy Stone

SD-CP-SS-33
Because she did not want anything to get in the way of bringing Southern white women into the National American Woman Suffrage Association, Susan B. Anthony told which famed African-American abolitionist and long-time supporter of women’s suffrage to not attend the organization’s 1895 convention in Atlanta, Georgia?
A.	W. E. B. DuBois
B.	Frederick Douglas
C.	Sojourner Truth
D.	Ida B. Wells

SD-CP-SS-34
When forced to choose between truly equal rights for all Americans and women’s rights, between insisting on justice for all or accepting injustice to protect their own cause which of the following women invariably chose the easier, less noble path?

A.	Carrie Catt of the National American Woman’s 	Suffrage Association
B.	Alice Paul of the National Woman’s Party
C.	Both Carrie Catt and Alice Paul
D.	Neither Carrie Catt nor Alice Paul

SD-CP-SS-35
Fearing political repercussions, Carrie Catt deliberately distanced herself and the National American Woman’s Suffrage Association from three of the following.  From which one did she not distance herself and the NAWSA?

A.	American participation in World War I
B.	Efforts to protect voting rights of African-	American men
C.	Margaret Sanger’s Birth Control League
D.	The temperance movements and 	Prohibition

SD-CP-SS-36
Carrie Catt based the tone and tactics of her campaign to gain women’s suffrage on which of the following observations of politicians?
A.	Most politicians gave their first loyalties 	to political party and political bosses.
B.	Most politicians wanted to be on the 	winning side of an issue.
C.	Most politicians tried to be civic-minded 	patriots.
D.	Most politicians were corrupt and had 	few deeply-held beliefs.


SD-CP-SS-37
Three of the following Tennessee women would have had access to dossiers detailing the political and personal lives of every member of Congress as well as governors and key state legislators.  Which woman would have regarded such an indexing system as an invasion of privacy and a diabolical blackmail scheme inspired by Germany?

A.	Anne Dudley, Tennessee state suffrage leader and 	vice-president of the NAWSA
B.	Abby Milton, president of the Tennessee League of 	Women’s Voters
C.	Josephine Pearson of the Tennessee State 	Association Opposed to Woman Suffrage
D.	Sue White, National Woman’s Party activist 

SD-CP-SS-38
Demonstrating a growing acceptance of women’s suffrage, which World Fair featured a grand Woman’s Building that showcased the accomplishment of women around the world and the World’s Congress of Representative Women of All Lands with 500 delegates from 27 countries?
A.	The 1893 World’s Columbian Exposition in 	Chicago, Illinois
B.	The 1895 Cotton States & International 	Exposition in Atlanta, Georgia
C.	The 1901 Pan-American Exposition in Buffalo, 	New York
D.	The 1915 Lincoln Jubilee & Exposition in 	Chicago, Illinois

SD-CP-SS-39
According to Elaine Weiss, which one of the four largest states defeated a suffrage referendum in 1915 but turned the tide for a federal amendment by approving a suffrage referendum in 1917?

A.	Illinois
B.	New York
C.	Ohio
D.	Pennsylvania

SD-CP-SS-40
One of the following Nashville men consistently opposed woman’s suffrage.  Two supported woman’s suffrage at one time but surprised suffragists by opposing ratification of the 19th Amendment.  Which man was a consistent supporter of woman’s suffrage and ratification of the 19th Amendment?
A.	Luke Lea, a former U. S. senator and publisher 	of the Nashville Tennessean
B.	Bushrod Stahlman, railroad executive and publisher 	of the Nashville Banner 
C.	John Jacob Vettrees, a prominent Nashville 	attorney
D.	Seth Walker, speaker of the Tennessee House 	of Representatives

SD-CP-SS-41
Three of the following statements correctly describe reasons Carrie Catt cited to ratify the 19th Amendment when she was the luncheon speaker at the Kiwanis Club of Nashville on Friday, July 23, 1920?  Which statement is false?

A.	America, having fought a civil war for liberty and 	democracy, should ratify the amendment as a matter 	of national pride.
B.	Both political parties and both presidential candidates 	favored ratification.
C.	Delaying or denying ratification would be bad for 	Tennessee’s business image and Nashville’s future.
D.	The state’s prohibition on ratification of a federal 	amendment by a sitting legislature had been ruled null 	and void.


SD-CP-SS-42
In January of 1919, while President Wilson was  in Paris negotiating world peace, several women were arrested for burning copies of his speeches about democracy and freedom during demonstrations in Lafayette Park.  While in jail they staged a hunger strike.  In order to avoid embarrassing Wilson, Senate Democrats agreed to do which of the following?

A.	Bring the 19th Amendment to the floor for a vote
B.	Endorse the 19th Amendment
C.	Pass the 19th Amendment
D.	Urge the House of Representatives to pass the 	19th Amendment

SD-CP-SS-43
Which of the following statements accurately describe Anita Pollitzer?
A.	After graduating from college, she moved to 	Washington, D. C., to work for the NAWSA.
B.	Her father, a wealthy Roman Catholic 	businessman in Charleston, supported her 	political activism.  
C.	She attended art school with Mary Cassat 	whose career she later aided.
D.	She complained that Carrie Catt’s optimistic 	reports were undermining ratification of the 	19th Amendment.

SD-CP-SS-44
After assessing the chances for ratification of the 19th Amendment in Tennessee, Anita Pollitzer reported to Alice Paul that “he appears to be friendly but his face does such queer things when I pin him down.”  Who was this “slick politician” to whom Pollitzer took an instant dislike?
A.	Edward Crump, former mayor of Memphis and 	Shelby County Democrat boss
B.	Jesse Littleton, former mayor of Chattanooga and 	Republican candidate for governor
C.	Newell Sanders, seventy-year-old Democrat and 	former U. S. senator
D.	Seth Walker, Democrat speaker of the 	Tennessee House of Representatives

SD-CP-SS-45
Barging onto the podium and presenting the Declaration of the Rights of Women of the United States, Susan B. Anthony disrupted the official Fourth of July ceremonies at which of the following events?
A.	The 1876 Centennial Exhibition in 	Philadelphia
B.	The 1885 American Exhibition in Boston, 	Massachusetts
C.	The 1893 Columbian Exposition in Chicago, 	Illinois
D.	The 1915 Lincoln Jubilee and Exposition in 	Chicago Illinois

SD-CP-SS-46
In 1920, the Democratic Party machine of Shelby County elected the prominent Memphis attorney Thomas “Million Dollar” Riddick to a vacant seat in the state legislature.  Edward Crump, the party boss, expected him to ensure that which of the following persons would not only support ratification of the 19th Amendment but take the lead in promoting ratification?

A.	Governor Albert Roberts
B.	Memphis business and civic leaders
C.	Shelby County state legislators
D.	Speaker of the House Seth Walker

SD-CP-SS-47
As Josephine Pearson marshaled the women who opposed suffrage to defend southern and Christian civilization against the barbarians at the gates, she did accept the help of women who favored suffrage on principle but opposed the 19th Amendment for which of the following reasons?
 
A.	Legislators would be violating their oath to uphold 	the state constitution if they voted for ratification.
B.	The proposed federal amendment would allow 	the federal government to trample on the rights of 	southern states.
C.	Both A & B
D.	Neither A nor B

SD-CP-SS-48
When suffrage activist Anita Pollitzer traveled to McMinn County in eastern Tennessee, the Republican county chairman assured her that which supposedly “uncommitted” legislator of eastern Tennessee would in the end vote to ratify the 19th Amendment?   
A.	Herschel Candler, the very influential senator
B.	C. Fulton Boyer, an old and stubborn but 	trustworthy representative
C.	Harry Burn, the youngest member of the 	legislature
D.	Emerson Luther, the Republican house floor 	leader

SD-CP-SS-49
As Carrie Catt began her speaking tour across Tennessee, the Chattanooga Times published an essay by Foster V. Brown contending that sitting legislators would be violating their oath of office by vote on ratification of the 19th Amendment in the upcoming special session.  Why was Brown’s essay a harsh blow to efforts to ratify the amendment?
A.	Brown, a leading New York progressive, was a 	founder of the American Bar Association.
B.	Brown was known as a champion of women’s suffrage 	and a supporter of the amendment.
C.	Brown was the past-president of the Tennessee 	Constitutional League.
D.	Brown was the well-respected attorney general of 	Tennessee. 

SD-CP-SS-50
One of the following government office holders has no official role in amending the U. S. Constitution.  Two are required to perform an official task after Congress passes a joint resolution proposing a new amendment.  Which one of the officials could, if he chooses to do so, disrupt or delay the ratification of an amendment?

A.	The governor of any state
B.	The president of the United States
C.	The presiding officer of either the United 	States Senate or House of Representatives
D.	The secretary of state of the United States

SD-CP-SS-51
Elaine Weiss writes that Catherine Flanagan’s decision to become a suffrage activist reflected her father’s active participation in which of the following reform movements?

A.	Abolition of slavery
B.	Home rule for Ireland
C.	Labor unions
D.	Reconstruction

SD-CP-SS-52
Elaine Weiss writes that Woman’s Party activist Catherine Flanagan drove 30 miles from Johnson City, Tennessee, and then walked another two miles in a thunderstorm to confront an uncommitted state legislator who had no telephone.  What was his reply to her request to support ratification of the 19th Amendment?
A.	A Republican, he promised to support ratification if 	Warren Harding supported it.
B.	He claimed to support women’s suffrage but said, “I 	cannot see my way clear to vote for the amendment. 	Period.”
C.	He surprised her by declaring, “I unalterably oppose 	women’s suffrage and shall vote against the bill.”
D.	He thought doing so would violate his oath to defend 	the state constitution but he would deliberate on the	matter. 

SD-CP-SS-53
Elaine Weiss writes that leaders of the Southern Women’s Rejection League set up a museum exhibit of “force bills” introduced in the last congress to enforce the 14th  and 15th Amendments and, if ratified, the 19th amendment, knowing full well that any references to such laws would dredge up white southerners’ traumatic memories of federal force bills that did which of the following during Reconstruction?

A.	Distributed land formerly owned by Confederate 	officials to former slaves
B.	Enforced federal civil rights laws 
C.	Made lynching and racial terrorism federal crimes
D.	Reduced congressional representation of states that 	violated African-American voting rights


SD-CP-SS-54
A national committee chairman secretly wired his party’s Tennessee legislators urging them to commit to ratify the 19th Amendment in time for which 1920 presidential candidate to announce an assured majority in his official nomination acceptance speech on August 7th?

A.	James Cox of the Democrat Party
B.	Eugene Debs of the Socialist Party
C.	Warren Harding of the Republican Party
D.	Aaron Watkins of the Prohibition Party

SD-CP-SS-55
As Tennessee legislators arrived in Nashville for the 1920 special session of the General Assembly, Josephine Pearson and Nina Pinckard, leading opponents of women’s suffrage, posed for this photograph with William Crutcher at the Hotel Hermitage.   Which of the following statements best describes Crutcher?

A.	A Confederate veteran 
	of the Civil War
B.	A former governor of 
	Tennessee
C.	The founder of the
	 Ku Klux Klan
D.	The oldest member of the General Assembly


57

SD-CP-SS-56
After Governor Albert Roberts won the primary election, he told his closest political advisors that he was prepared to endorse ratification of the 19th Amendment.   They told him that endorsing ratification would do which of the following?

A.	Be political suicide by alienating corporate 	interests and religious conservatives
B.	Gain the electoral gratitude of women for 	championing their enfranchisement
C.	Guarantee the essential support of the national 	Democratic Party and James Cox
D.	Unite the badly divided Tennessee Democrat 	Party

SD-CP-SS-57
As Carrie Catt and Sue White prepared for the special ratification session of the General Assembly, which suffrage organization decided that only Tennessee women were to lobby legislators, attend sessions in the legislative galleries, or even set foot in the statehouse?

A.	Only Catt’s NAWSA
B.	Only White’s Woman’s Party
C.	Both Catt’s NAWSA and White’s Woman’s 	Party
D.	Neither Catt’s NAWSA nor White’s Woman’s 	Party 

SD-CP-SS-58
Which of the major men’s civic clubs of Memphis passed resolutions supporting ratification of the 19th Amendment and sent delegates to lobby in the 1920 special session of the Tennessee General Assembly? 
A.	The Lions and Kiwanis clubs
B.	The Memphis City and Rotary clubs
C.	The Memphis City, Rotary, Lions, and 	Kiwanis clubs
D.	The Memphis City, Rotary, Lions, and 	Kiwanis clubs as well as the 
	American Legion


SD-CP-SS-59
When Republican legislators caucused at the Hotel Hermitage prior to the 1920 special session of the General Assembly, party leaders presented solid, practical reasons for party members to back ratification of the 19th Amendment.   When the caucus adjourned, the latest poll showed how many of the 34 Republican legislators committed to voting for ratification?
A.	All but Herschel Candler and Harry Burn
B.	A bare majority of 18 with 14 opposed
C.	Only 13 with 21 opposed or noncommittal
D.	Fewer than 10 with most remaining 	noncommittal

SD-CP-SS-60
As Tennessee legislators arrived in Nashville for the 1920 special session of the General Assembly, Carrie Catt questioned the effectiveness of which Democrat who had promised to support ratification of the 19th Amendment? 

A.	Governor Albert Roberts
B.	Memphis Mayor Rowlett Paine
C.	Memphis schools Superintendent Charl 	Williams
D.	Newly elected State Representative Thomas 	Riddick

SD-CP-SS-61
On the opening day of the 1920 special session of the Tennessee General Assembly, a “memorial” was read into the record of the Senate imploring legislators to not “impose” the federal amendment on their “kindred southern states.”   The plea had been sent by legislators from which state?

A.	Alabama 
B.	Maryland
C.	South Carolina
D.	Virginia

SD-CP-SS-62
Fearing that suffragists could not prevail without national aid, which Woman’s Party activist stayed up late into the night after the opening day of the 1920 special session of the Tennessee General Assembly with Republican leaders, helping them to compose SOS messages to Warren Harding and Will Hayes?

A.	Anne Dudley 
B.	Betty Gram
C.	Anita Pollitzer
D.	Sue White

SD-CP-SS-63
Three of the following statements accurately describes Tennessee House majority leader William Bond’s proposal to delay consideration of the 19th Amendment until public opinion could be gauged in a series of mass meetings in every county seat.  Which statement is false?

A.	All residents of Tennessee would be allowed to speak 	at the meetings.
B.	By a narrow margin, the House eventually tabled 	Bond’s proposal.
C.	The proposal could delay – perhaps forever – 	ratification of the 19th Amendment.
D.	The proposal did not provide any method for 	measuring popular opinion.

SD-CP-SS-64
Anti-ratification forces in Tennessee asserted if the 19th Amendment was ratified, which of the following would create another era of reconstruction as well as domination by African-Americans?  

A.	Destruction of the traditional southern family
B.	Federal control of southern elections
C.	Northern control of the South’s economy
D.	Unionization of workers in southern factories

SD-CP-SS-65
Three of the following statements accurately describe Governor Albert Roberts as the Tennessee General Assembly began to consideration the 19th Amendment   Which statement is false?

A.	From the back of the House chamber, he worked 	to defeat efforts to delay a ratification vote.
B.	He convinced Woman’s Party activists that he 	was committed to ratification.
C.	He personally reassured James Cox that he had 	control of the ratification process.
D.	He spent hours cajoling wavering Democratic 	legislators to vote for ratification 

SD-CP-SS-66
National Woman’s Party leader Alice Paul sent Abby Baker to Democratic presidential candidate James Cox armed with census data, which would disprove which anti-suffrage arguments against ratification of the 19th Amendment?
A.	Ratification would harm Cox’s presidential 	ambitions.
B.	Ratification would end Democratic domination 	of the South.
C.	Ratification would end white control of 	elections across the South.
D.	All of the above.

SD-CP-SS-67
As the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Amendments of the Tennessee House of Representatives was preparing to vote on the 19th Amendment, forces opposed to ratification released two letters from men who had previously endorsed women’s suffrage.  One man’s letter opposed the “federal amendment’s centralization of power.”  Which man gave credence to the legally dubious and discredited requirement that ratification could only be considered after the next general election?

A.	Charles Cates, former attorney general of Tennessee
B.	Warren Harding, Republican presidential candidate
C.	Edward Stahlman, publisher of the Nashville Banner
D.	Alf Taylor, Republican candidate for governor of 	Tennessee

SD-CP-SS-68
He justified his opposition to the 19th Amendment in a dramatic speech to the Tennessee General Assembly in which he brushed aside, but did not deny, accusations that he had been unduly influenced by the Louisville and Nashville Railroad.   Who was this legislator who nevertheless boldly declared his southern loyalties and demanded that the United States remain a white man’s country?

A.	Charles Wesley Brooks, representative from 	western Tennessee
B.	Herschel Candler, senator from wastern 	Tennessee
C.	Percy Sharpe, a legislator who had reneged on 	promises to support ratification
D.	Seth Walker, Speaker of the House, from 	Nashville

SD-CP-SS-69
An anti-ratification propaganda publication that compared provisions of the 15th and 19th Amendments and warning of efforts to enforce federal laws in Tennessee carefully exploited fear of which of the following?
A.	Southern factory owners fear of unions
B.	Southern upper-class fear of Northern 	economic domination
C.	Southern white men’s fear that their manhood 	was under siege
D.	Southern whites’ fear of African-Americans 	winning elections



SD-CP-SS-70
How did Carrie Catt respond to Senator Herschel Candler’s racist attacks on women’s suffrage?
A.	She declared, “Suffrage knows no bias of 	race, color, or sex.”
B.	She declared that interracial marriage was 	a crime against nature.
C.	She denied that the 19th Amendment 	would undermine the South’s racial caste 	system.
D.	None of the above.  She ignored both 	Candler and his speech.

SD-CP-SS-71
Alice Paul publicly accused the Louisville and Nashville Railroad (owned by the Connecticut-based Atlantic Coast Line) of convincing Speaker Seth Walker to oppose ratification of the 19th Amendment by doing which of the following?
A.	Bribing him with a large sum of money
B.	Hiring him to be a L&N Railroad attorney
C.	Promising to support his election to the 
	U. S. Senate
D.	Threatening to expose his extramarital 	romance

SD-CP-SS-72
After Speaker Seth Walker leveraged his personal friendships and political muscle to outmaneuver the rookie chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Amendments, suffragists chose which well-liked and political savvy representative as their ratification strategist in the House?
A.	William Bond
B.	Joe Hanover
C.	Tom Riddick
D.	Banks Turner 

SD-CP-SS-73
Three of the following state senators declared that voting to ratify the 19th Amendment was the honorable and right thing to do.   Which one, weak and shaky, had left his sickbed in order to vote for ratification?

A.	C. C. Collins 
B.	John Houk
C.	William Monroe
D.	Erastus Patton

SD-CP-SS-74
Stating that he wanted revenge on northerners who imposed the 14th and 15th Amendments on the South, long-time suffrage opponent State Senator William Monroe voted to ratify the 19th Amendment in order to specifically punish which state that had recently voted against ratification?
A.	Connecticut 
B.	Delaware
C.	Indiana
D.	Montana

SD-CP-SS-75
Which of the following statements best describes Warren Harding’s response to the negative reaction to his letter that urged Tennessee legislators to remain loyal to their conscience and to be reluctant to violate their oath of office?

A.	He sent a telegram of congratulations to the 	senators of Tennessee
B.	He was confused by the reaction to what he 	thought was a statement of principle.
C.	He was disappointed that Judge G. N. Tillman 	made the letter public.
D.	He was furious with Will Hays who had composed 	the letter.

SD-CP-SS-76
John Houk, a Republican state senator, and Sue White, a Woman’s Party activist, both believed that the Louisville and Nashville Railroad was illicitly using its power to pressure Tennessee legislators to oppose ratification of the 19th Amendment.   They saw a large-scale conspiracy to protect anti-suffragist U. S. senators allied with Warren Harding, such as Frank Brandegee, who represented which state that was home to the owners of the L&N Railroad?

A.	Connecticut 
B.	New Jersey
C.	New York
D.	Pennsylvania

SD-CP-SS-77
After the Senate ratified the 19th Amendment, women tried to lure him into compromising situations and anonymous men threated him.   These actions led Governor Albert Roberts to order the Tennessee State Police to provide bodyguards for which of the following men?
A.	Harry Burn, uncommitted representative from 	Niota
B.	John Hanover, House floor leader for ratification
C.	Thomas Riddick, chair of the House Committee 	on Constitutional Affairs and Amendments 
D.	Seth Walker, Speaker of the House 

SD-CP-SS-78
As the Tennessee House met to vote on the 19th Amendment, Speaker Seth Walker gauged support for ratification by engineering which of the following test votes?

A.	A vote to suspend the rule banning lobbyists 	and spectators from the House floor
B.	A vote to adjourn the House and reconvene 	the next day
C.	A vote to table consideration of the 	amendment
D.	All of the above

SD-CP-SS-79
As the Tennessee House of Representatives considered the 19th Amendment, the senate of which southern state sidestepped a vote and defeated ratification with a motion to postpone consideration until 1921?

A.	Florida 
B.	Georgia
C.	Louisiana
D.	North Carolina

SD-CP-SS-80
On the morning that the Tennessee House of Representatives considered the 19th Amendment, James Cox called Governor Albert Roberts and declared that ratification would boost his presidential campaign because American women overwhelmingly supported the Democratic Party’s pledge to do which of the following?
A.	Approve U. S. membership in the League of 	Nations
B.	Enact laws to ban child labor and limit the 	industrial work day to eight hours
C.	Grant independence to the Philippines 
D.	Provide funds for the treatment of disabled WWI 	veterans

SD-CP-SS-81
On the morning that the Tennessee House of Representatives considered the 19th Amendment, a large display ad in The Nashville Tennessean warned that ratification of the 19th Amendment threated to cause what apocalyptic event?

A.	Collapse of the traditional American family
B.	Downfall of Christianity in the U. S.
C.	Racial warfare between whites and blacks
D.	Secession of southern states and a second 	civil war

SD-CP-SS-82
Three of the following correctly describe the drama surrounding an attempt by Speaker Seth Walker to table ratification of the 19th Amendment.  Which statement is false?	
A.	A fist fight between Walker and Thomas 	Riddick was narrowly avoided.
B.	The motion to table was defeated by a vote of 	48 for and 48 against.
C.	The vote convinced Walker that the 	amendment would be ratified.
D.	Walker ally Banks Turner provided the vote 	that defeated the motion.

SD-CP-SS-83
As the clerk called the roll of Tennessee’s state representatives to vote on ratification of the 19th Amendment, he did not answer and was recorded as not voting and it appeared that a tie vote had killed the resolution.   However, he then stood and said, “Mr. Speaker, I wish to be recorded as voting Aye.”   Who was this representative who ensured the ratification of the 19th Amendment? 

A.	Harry Burn 
B.	Austin Overton
C.	Thomas Riddick
D.	Banks Turner

SD-CP-SS-84
Three of the following statements accurately explain why Anita Pollitzer and other suffragists were so surprised when State Representative Harry Burn provided the key vote to ratify the 19th Amendment.  Which statement is false?
A.	He had entered the House chamber wearing 	a red boutonniere. 
B.	He had said that he would never help the 	suffrage cause.
C.	He had just voted to table the ratification 	resolution.
D.	Voters in his district opposed any federal 	suffrage amendment.

SD-CP-SS-85
Three of following statements accurately repeat sentences written by Phoebe Burn to her son, State Representative Harry Burn.  Which statement is false?

A.	Hurrah and vote for suffrage and don’t keep 	them in doubt.
B.	I noticed Chandler’s speech; it was very bitter.
C.	I’ve been waiting to see how you stood but 	have not seen anything yet.
D.	Don’t forget to be a good boy and help 	Governor Roberts.

SD-CP-SS-86
Which of the suffragist leaders is shown here as she celebrated Tennessee’s ratification of the 19th Amendment by sewing the 36th star onto her ratification banner and unfurling it from the balcony of her headquarters in Washington, D. C.?

A.	Carrie Catt
B.	Alice Paul
C.	J. Frankie Pierce
D.	Sue White 

SD-CP-SS-87
Attempting to force Harry Burn to miss any possible vote to reconsider the House’s ratification of the 19th Amendment, several anti-ratification leaders fabricated affidavits to prove that Joe Hanover had bribed Burn to vote for ratification.  The scheme collapsed when which of the following persons gave copies of the affidavits to The Nashville Tennesseean?

A.	An anonymous Hotel Hermitage employee who found
	the copies in the trash
B.	Charlotte Rowe who opposed ratification but refused 	to participate in the scheme
C.	House Speaker Seth Walker who would not blackmail 	a fellow Democrat
D.	The stenographer hired to take the dictation for the 	affidavits

SD-CP-SS-88
Why did suffragists fear that the Tennessee House’s vote to ratify the 19th Amendment might not be the final step in the ratification process?

A.	Governor Albert Roberts might veto the 	ratification resolution.
B.	Seth Walker might call for a vote to reconsider 	the ratification resolution. 
C.	The Tennessee Supreme Court might 	invalidate the vote to ratify.
D.	The vote to ratify still needed a constitutional 	majority of 50 votes

SD-CP-SS-89
The day after the Tennessee House ratified the 19th Amendment, Harry Burn asked for a point of personal privilege and handed a written statement to the clerk to be printed in the house journal.  In that statement he wrote that he had voted for ratification because he believed that one should always follow whose advice?

A.	One’s mother 
B.	One’s own conscience
C.	The leaders of the nation
D.	The people

SD-CP-SS-90
After the Tennessee House ratified the 19th Amendment, an uninvited woman showed up at the home of Harry Burn’s mother, Phoebe Burn.   Who was this opponent of ratification who tried to pressure her to say that she never sent her son a letter urging him to vote to ratify the amendment?
A.	Josephine Pearson, president of the Tennessee 	Association Opposed to Woman Suffrage
B.	Anne Pleasant, the wife of the governor of 	Louisiana
C.	Charlotte Rowe, field secretary of the National 	Association Opposed to Woman Suffrage 
D.	Queenie Washington, a wealthy Nashville 	socialite
 

SD-CP-SS-91
After the 1920 special session of the Tennessee General Assembly ratified the 19th Amendment, which one of the efforts of anti-ratification forces did delay the process of ratification by a few days?

A.	Enjoining the U. S. Secretary of State from 	accepting Tennessee’s ratification
B.	Breaking the house quorum to delay a vote to 	reconsider the ratification resolution
C.	Repealing the ratification resolution
D.	Seeking an injunction to prevent the Governor 	from certifying ratification

SD-CP-SS-92
In what kind of ceremony did the U. S. Secretary of State sign the legal papers proclaiming the adoption of the 19th Amendment?

A.	A celebration with photographers and movie 	cameras at Poli’s Theatre in Washington, D. C.
B.	A simple signing in his own home with no 	women and no cameras
C.	A solemn ceremony at Independence Hall in 	Philadelphia
D.	A White House ceremony attended by Alice 	Paul, Carrie Catt, and other leading 	suffragists


SD-CP-SS-93
In late August of 1920, Americans marked the ratification of the 19th Amendment with noisy nation-wide festivities.  In which Tennessee city did a bitter mayor instead ask his citizens to bow their heads at noon on August 28 “in memory of the final passing of the principles for which our forefathers fought, the death of states’ rights, and the complete nullification of the Constitution of Tennessee”?

A.	Knoxville 
B.	Chattanooga
C.	Memphis
D.	Nashville

SD-CP-SS-94
On Election Day 1920, Josephine Pearson did which of the following?

A.	Boycotted the election and remained in 	seclusion at home
B.	Distributed literature claiming the 19th 	Amendment was illegal
C.	Instructed a male neighbor to cast her ballot 	for her
D.	Voted against her ratification opponents, 	Albert Roberts and James Cox

SD-CP-SS-95
After 1920, efforts to limit the voting rights of certain Americans continued throughout the 20th century and even into the 21st century.   However, challenges to the voting rights of which group were effectively ended by a 1922 U. S. Supreme Court decision?  

A.	African-Americans
B.	Chinese-Americans and Japanese-Americans
C.	Native Americans
D.	Women

SD-CP-SS-96
This bronze monument featuring five suffragists celebrates the ratification of the 19th Amendment. The statue is located in which city?

A.	Atlanta, Georgia
B.	Nashville, 
	   Tennessee
C.	Seneca Falls,
	 New York
D.	Washington, D. C. 

98

SD-CP-SS-97
Which of the following statements accurately describe the results of passage of the 19th Amendment?

A.	Both political parties recruited many women 	to run for local, state, and national offices.
B.	The League of Women Voters continued to 	advocate for “good government.”
C.	Women coalesced into a unified voting bloc 	with increased power in both political parties. 
D.	The Women’s Party transformed itself into an 	effective political party.

SD-CP-SS-98
After the ratification of the 19th Amendment, the following women all continued their lives of public service.  Which one is correctly matched to her later accomplishment?
A.	Betty Gram:  returned to Broadway and 	performed in many musicals
B.	Abby Milton:  elected to the Tennessee 	Senate as a Democrat
C.	Harriet Upton:  held high posts with the 	League of Women Voters and the Democratic 	Party
D.	Sue White:  served as counsel for the Social 	Security Administration 

SD-CP-SS-99
The women pictured here include Sojourner Truth, C. J. Madam Walker, and Ida Wells.  Which one is Juno Frankie Pierce the Nashville, Tennessee, civic leader who led efforts to gain suffrage for African-American women and addressed the first meeting of the Tennessee League of Women Voters in the statehouse?





A.  Picture A 				B.  Picture B
C.  Picture C      			D.  Picture D

A
B
C
D

SD-CP-SS-100
Indiana ratified the 19th Amendment along with which group of other states?

A.	The first ten states to ratify in 1919 	(States #1 to #10)
B.	The next 12 states to ratify in 1919 	(States #11 to #22)
C.	The first 13 states to ratify in 1920 	(States #23 to #35)
D.	The last 12 states to ratify from 1920 to 	1984 (States #37 to #48)

SD-CP-SS-101
What was the highest level of suffrage guaranteed to women in 1919 Indiana before the ratification of the 19th Amendment?

A.	Full suffrage
B.	Presidential suffrage
C.	Municipal and primary suffrage in 	some cities
D.	No suffrage

SD-CP-SS-102
In 1797, the election laws of New Jersey referred to voters as “he or she” throughout the whole state.  However, the clause “he or she” was rescinded in 1807 and changed to which of the following?

A.	Free men
B.	Free male citizens
C.	Free white men
D.	Free, white, male citizens

SD-CP-SS-103
As early as 1838, widows in Kentucky who owned property could vote for which of the following public officials?

A.	Local city, county, and school officials
B.	Public health and welfare trustees
C.	School and township trustees
D.	School trustees

SD-CP-SS-104
In which region of the United States did conservatives most stubbornly resist women’s suffrage and ratification of the 19th Amendment?

A.	The border states     
B.	The Midwestern Plains states
C.	The southern states of the former 	Confederacy
D.	The Western Mountain states

SD-CP-SS-105
Why did Alice Paul stay in Washington, D. C., instead of joining  other Woman’s Party activists in Nashville to lobby for ratification of the 19th Amendment?
A.	Being an outsider, she thought her presence 	would be a distraction.
B.	She was coordinating efforts to reconsider 	ratification in Delaware.
C.	She was desperately trying to secure funding 	for the nearly bankrupt NWP.
D.	She was recovering from an episode of 	angina caused by her chronic heart ailment.

SD-CP-SS-106
On the floor of the Tennessee Senate, Senator Herschel Candler declared that ratification of the 19th would lead to which of the following?
 
A.	Election of African-American state 	legislators
B.	Interracial marriage 
C.	Petticoat government
D.	All of the above

SD-CP-SS-107
Seth Walker, speaker of the Tennessee House of Representatives, justified his newly announced opposition to ratification of the 19th Amendment by declaring that there was no question in his mind that which group of Tennessee voters overwhelmingly opposed universal suffrage and/or a federal suffrage amendment?

A.	business owners 
B.	Protestants
C.	rural residents
D.	whites

SD-CP-SS-108
Which of the following statements accurately describes Tennessee State Representative Joe Hanover of Shelby County and helps to explain why he believed in the American Dream and was such an ardent supporter of women’s suffrage?
A.	A devout Quaker, he believed in non-violence and 	human equality.
B.	He and his family came to America to escape 	pogroms against Jews in Poland.
C.	He was the first African-American to be elected to 	the Tennessee General Assembly since 	Reconstruction.
D.	Orphaned at an early age, he overcame poverty 	to become a respected district attorney.

SD-CP-SS-109
During the special session of the General Assembly, according to Elaine Weiss, one of the following persons “took gleeful potshots at Warren Harding’s comic gyrations of opinion on Tennessee ratification and his flip-flopping on support for women’s suffrage.”  Who was this person who said with a broad grin, that Harding’s position was “as clear as mud”?
A.	Will Hays 
B.	Luke Lea
C.	Josephine Pearson
D.	Franklin Roosevelt

SD-CP-SS-110
Three of the following statements accurately describe how the influenza pandemic impacted Congress in October, 1918.  Which statement is FALSE?

A.	House Speaker Champ Clark became ill with 	influenza
B.	Hundreds of deaths were reported in the District 	of Columbia every week
C.	Influenza related deaths of two Democrat 	senators gave pro-suffrage Republicans control of 	the Senate
D.	Public viewing galleries in the House and Senate 	were closed as legislative action ground to a near 	halt

End of Social Studies Round

Senior Super Bowl Area Contest - April 20, 2021

SD Social Studies Coaches Practice Answer Key:
1.   C	   
2.   D
3.   B
4.   C
5.   C
6.   D
7.   A
8.   D
9.   B
10.  C
11.  C
12.  D
13.  D
14.  C
15.  D
16.  C
17.  D
18.  B
19.  C
20.  B
21.  C
22.  A
23.  C
24.  A
25.  C  
26.  C
27.  B
28.  C
29.  B
30.  A
31.  A    
32.  D
 B
 C
 A
 B
 C
 A
 B
 A

41.  A    
42.  A
43.  D
44.  B
45.  A
46.  C
47.  C
48.  C
49.  B
50.  A
51.  B    
52.  D
53.  B
54.  A
55.  A
56.  A
57.  A
58.  D
59.  C
60.  C

SD Social Studies Coaches Practice Answer Key:
61.   B	   
62.   C
63.   A
64.   B
65.   B
66.   D
67.  B
68.   D
69.   D
70.  B
71.  B
72.  B
73.  A
74.  A
75.  B
76.  A
77.  B
78.  B
79.  D
80.  A
81.  C
82.  C
83.  D
84.  B
85.  D  
86.  B
87.  D
88.  B
89.  A
90.  B
91.  D    
92.  B
93.  B
94.  B
95.  D
96.  B
97.  B
98.  D
99.  C
100.  C
101.  B
102.  D
103.  D
104.  C
105.  C
106.  D
107.  C
108.  B
109.  D
110.  C
